docs: Security-related docs updates and lagging tasks (#26835)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/develop/objects/object-ownership/party.mdx

---
title: Party Objects

> description: Party objects are owned by a specified party at the time of transfer and versioned by consensus. Learn how to create, transfer, and access these objects.

Reviewer: Ask @aschran for review of this page

---

> A party object is a consensus-address-owned object: a single address owns it, but consensus sequences and versions it. APIs expose this ownership with a `ConsensusAddressOwner` owner variant. Like shared objects, party objects use consensus sequencing. Unlike shared objects, they retain single-address ownership and can be transferred to and from other ownership types and wrapped.

Reviewer 2: I think we shouldn't explain it like this because this is just a current limitation

the intention was always for party objects to support multiple forms of ownership/permissions

and we are already working on adding another `Party` ownership type in addition to `ConsensusAddressOwner` to implement this, so soon two owner variants will both correpsond to party objects

Reviewer 2: (the "info" block below is correct and I think good to keep, but for the actual main-text description of party objects I think we should describe the actual mental model and not just the current implementation)

> A party object is owned by a `Party`: a permission set that determines which addresses can access the object and how. Like [shared](/develop/objects/object-ownership/shared) objects, party objects are sequenced and versioned by [consensus](/develop/sui-architecture/consensus), so several transactions can use them concurrently. Unlike shared objects, only the owning party can access a party object, and you can transfer it to and from other ownership types and wrap it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A party object is owned by a `Party`: a permission set that determines which addresses can access the object and how. Like [shared](/develop/objects/object-ownership/shared) objects, party objects are sequenced and versioned by [consensus](/develop/sui-architecture/consensus), so several transactions can submitted concurrently. Unlike shared objects, only the addresses with the appropriate permissions can access a party object. These permissions govern all aspects of an object, including reads, writes, and transfers.
```

On the first change, the consensus sequenced objects can have multiple transactions submitted concurrently, but for transactions that mutate the object, they are executed sequentially. Though immutable usage can be done concurrently.

On the second change, I would not say that the "owning party" is really an entity in this way. We have a mapping from address -> permission. And then a default permission set for if the address is not in that map. My point being you could not be in the set, and actually have more permissions than an address explicitly specified.

> Party objects are transferred using the [`sui::transfer::party_transfer`](/references/framework/sui_sui/transfer#sui_transfer_party_transfer) or [`sui::transfer::public_party_transfer`](/references/framework/sui_sui/transfer#sui_transfer_public_party_transfer) function. The object is accessible to the `Party` to which it is transferred.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Party objects are transferred using the [`sui::transfer::party_transfer`](/references/framework/sui_sui/transfer#sui_transfer_party_transfer) or [`sui::transfer::public_party_transfer`](/references/framework/sui_sui/transfer#sui_transfer_public_party_transfer) function. The object's permissions are then defined by the `Party` to which it is transferred.
```

:::info

> Party objects currently support only single-address ownership. The `sui::party::Party` type already models permissions for multiple members, but the public transfer functions accept only a single-owner party. A transfer of a party with more than one member aborts with `EInvalidPartyPermissions`.

Reviewer 3: I would revert this change. Only a single owner is constructible at this point, so there is really no need to talk about about error states.

:::

> ## Party, address-owned, and shared objects compared

Reviewer 3: I do not fully understand the goal of this section so it is a bit hard for me to give feed back on. Why just these properties here? I don't feel all of them important to the end user, or at least the same set of end users.

Additionally I don't think it really highlights the permission granularity of party objects, which is sort of half the reason we built them (with the consensus versioning being the other half)

public fun public_party_transfer<T: key + store>(obj: T, party: sui::party::Party)
```

> - Use the [`sui::transfer::party_transfer`](/references/framework/sui_sui/transfer#sui_transfer_party_transfer) function if you are defining a [custom transfer policy](/develop/objects/transfers/custom-rules) for the object.

Reviewer 3: This function should not be used at all today since you can only use the single owner party, which has public transfer. 

In either case for both this and the public_ variant, the behavior will instead be governed by a permission.

- Use the [`sui::transfer::public_party_transfer`](/references/framework/sui_sui/transfer#sui_transfer_public_party_transfer) function if the object has the `store` capability.

> Both functions take a `sui::party::Party` value. Construct that value with [`sui::party::single_owner`](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/crates/sui-framework/packages/sui-framework/sources/party.move), which grants all permissions to one address and no permissions to anyone else:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Both functions take a `sui::party::Party` value. Currently, that value can be constructed only with [`sui::party::single_owner`](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/crates/sui-framework/packages/sui-framework/sources/party.move), which grants all permissions to one address and no permissions to anyone else:
```

```
public fun single_owner(owner: address): sui::party::Party
```

> The `sui::party` module also provides two convenience macros that wrap the `transfer` functions. The `sui::party::transfer` macro calls `sui::transfer::party_transfer`, and the `sui::party::public_transfer` macro calls `sui::transfer::public_party_transfer`. Use whichever form reads more clearly in your module.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `sui::party` module also provides wrapper macros for the `transfer` functions that can be used with method syntax, e.g. `my_party.public_transfer()`. The `sui::party::transfer` macro calls `sui::transfer::party_transfer`, and the `sui::party::public_transfer` macro calls `sui::transfer::public_party_transfer`.
```

The following example creates an object and transfers it to a single-owner party in one function:

<ImportContent source="examples/move/basics/sources/object_basics.move" mode="code" fun="create_party" noComments />

> A party object's ownership can change over its lifetime, either by adding it as a [dynamic object field](/develop/objects/dynamic-fields), transferring it to a different address or ownership type, or making it [immutable](/develop/objects/object-ownership/immutable). However, after you create an object and set its ownership, you cannot [share](/develop/objects/object-ownership/shared) it.

Reviewer 3: This list is not exhaustive/complete, so I'm not sure it is worth adding. Party objects are just like owned objects in terms of restrictions. And trying to enumerate that separately here feels like it will only cause confusion.

| `TRANSFER` | `0x08` | The party can change the owner of the object, but cannot otherwise modify it. The runtime checks this permission at the end of execution. |

A party with the `READ` permission can take the object as an immutable input. A party with the `WRITE`, `DELETE`, or `TRANSFER` permission can take the object as a mutable input. The `single_owner` constructor sets all four permissions for one address, which is why a single-owner party can read, mutate, transfer, and delete its object.

The multi-member model exists in the type today, but the public transfer functions accept only single-owner parties. Both `party_transfer` and `public_party_transfer` assert that the party is a single owner and abort with `EInvalidPartyPermissions` otherwise.

## When to use party objects

Use party objects when you want an object to remain owned by one address but be versioned by [consensus](/develop/sui-architecture/consensus), such as for operational convenience. If you only use an object together with other party or [shared](/develop/objects/object-ownership/shared) objects, converting it to a party object has no additional performance cost.

> Party objects can be used by multiple inflight [transactions](/develop/transactions/txn-overview) at the same time. This contrasts with [address-owned](/develop/objects/object-ownership/address-owned) objects, which allow only a single inflight transaction because they take a fast path object lock. Because consensus assigns each version, many applications can pipeline several transactions against the same party object without waiting for one to finalize before submitting the next.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure the description of locks is really accurate anymore. I might just say that that the versioning is managed by the owner and leave it that.

In the TypeScript SDK, reference a party object with `tx.object(PARTY_OBJECT_ID)`. The SDK detects that the object is a consensus object from its owner and resolves the input automatically, using the consensus start version, so you do not pass a version yourself:

```ts title='use-party-object.ts'
import { Transaction } from '@mysten/sui/transactions';

const tx = new Transaction();

tx.moveCall({
  target: `${PACKAGE_ID}::counter::increment`,
  arguments: [tx.object(PARTY_OBJECT_ID)],
});
```

Party objects whose owning address corresponds to an object ID are not supported for access through the [transfer to object](/develop/objects/transfers/transfer-to-object) mechanism. To transfer a party object owned by an account address:

<ImportContent source="examples/move/basics/sources/object_basics.move" mode="code" fun="party_transfer_single_owner" noComments />

## Limitations

Keep the following constraints in mind when you design with party objects:

> - **Single-owner only:** The public transfer functions accept only single-owner parties. Multi-member parties are modeled in the type but are rejected at transfer time with `EInvalidPartyPermissions`.

Reviewer 3: - The abort is not reachable at this time
- We will lift this restriction, which I think is worth noting

> - **No transfer to object for object-ID owners:** A party object whose owning address corresponds to an object ID cannot be received through the [transfer to object](/develop/objects/transfers/transfer-to-object) mechanism.

Reviewer 3: This does not make a ton of sense to me as written, but I think I understand what we are trying to get at? 
Assuming I do, I might say something more like 
Even if the party is a single owner, and that address corresponds to an object's ID, the party object cannot currently be received through `sui::transfer::Receiving`. 

And we might find some way of working through this in the future... maybe... I don't know.

- **No gas payment with party `Coin<SUI>`:** You cannot pay gas with a party object `Coin<SUI>`. Transfer it back to address-owned first.

> - **Cannot be shared after creation:** Once you set an object's ownership, you cannot [share](/develop/objects/object-ownership/shared) it. You can still transfer it to another ownership type, wrap it, or make it [immutable](/develop/objects/object-ownership/immutable).

Reviewer 3: I would cut this. Shared objects by definition have to be newly created. This restriction is completely orthogonal to party objects.

## Troubleshooting

Use the following guidance when a transaction that uses party objects fails.

> - **Invalid party permissions:** A transfer aborts with `EInvalidPartyPermissions` when the party passed to `party_transfer` or `public_party_transfer` has more than one member or does not grant all permissions to a single owner. Build the party with `sui::party::single_owner` so it has exactly one owner with full permissions.

Reviewer 3: This is not reachable today

```
public fun single_owner(owner: address): sui::party::Party
```

The `sui::party` module also provides two convenience macros that wrap the `transfer` functions. The `sui::party::transfer` macro calls `sui::transfer::party_transfer`, and the `sui::party::public_transfer` macro calls `sui::transfer::public_party_transfer`. Use whichever form reads more clearly in your module.

The following example creates an object and transfers it to a single-owner party in one function:

<ImportContent source="examples/move/basics/sources/object_basics.move" mode="code" fun="create_party" noComments />

A party object's ownership can change over its lifetime, either by adding it as a [dynamic object field](/develop/objects/dynamic-fields), transferring it to a different address or ownership type, or making it [immutable](/develop/objects/object-ownership/immutable). However, after you create an object and set its ownership, you cannot [share](/develop/objects/object-ownership/shared) it.

> ### Party permission model

Reviewer 2: I think this is no longer current 

@tnowacki can you advise?

Reviewer 3: Yeah this is not current. But it is also not accessible so I'm not sure it is worth adding.
There is a good amount of detail documenting how it will work here:
https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/crates/sui-types/src/object.rs#L497

<ImportContent source="examples/move/basics/sources/object_basics.move" mode="code" fun="party_transfer_single_owner" noComments />

## Limitations

Keep the following constraints in mind when you design with party objects:

- **Single-owner only:** The public transfer functions accept only single-owner parties. Multi-member parties are modeled in the type but are rejected at transfer time with `EInvalidPartyPermissions`.
- **No transfer to object for object-ID owners:** A party object whose owning address corresponds to an object ID cannot be received through the [transfer to object](/develop/objects/transfers/transfer-to-object) mechanism.
- **No gas payment with party `Coin<SUI>`:** You cannot pay gas with a party object `Coin<SUI>`. Transfer it back to address-owned first.
- **Cannot be shared after creation:** Once you set an object's ownership, you cannot [share](/develop/objects/object-ownership/shared) it. You can still transfer it to another ownership type, wrap it, or make it [immutable](/develop/objects/object-ownership/immutable).

:::caution

> 

Reviewer 2: I think they are now supported on every network? unless we need to worry about non-public networks (but in that case tons of features could theoretically be re-disabled that are already enabled on mainnet, so I'd expect we don't worry about describing that possibility in our docs)
